Head On A Stick: The Affordable Art Finish Platform for Humanoid Social Robotics Research and Development on the Desktop 
Motivation 
The potential of interacting with social humanoid robots has captured and lead the imagination of millions. However, the actual ability to conduct research with systems has been limited by the expense of their custom design and manufacturing. Just as early turnkey desktop computer systems in the 1980’s democratized computers and made them concrete and real for a generation, our goal is to make social robotics concrete and real by bringing them to the desktop today.  
Customer 
Our initial target audience will be Human-Humanoid Robotic Interaction researchers, virtual assistant developers, conversational agent developers, medical training and cognitive therapy developers, as well as for entertainment purposes. These customers require robust flexible tools that lets them focus on the innovative aspect of their research or application versus combating the many operational concerns required to utilize a head robot today. 
Value Proposition 
Full scale humanoid robotics have been both custom (one of a kind) and expensive. Existing android heads are in the $50K-$125K price range and require extensive artistic, mechanical, electrical and software support skills to operate and maintain. 
The “Head on a Stick” (HOAS) project builds upon the existing Harmony platform currently in production.  Our goal is to provide a high-quality android head with accessories (desk mount or full body) with voice and vision processing at an enabling price point around $10K for the first wave of academic researchers and commercial application developers. The HOAS will be substantially open source, designed for experimentation, address a number of basic issues faced by existing systems, and be both modular and customizable.  In particular, we will provide tools enabling those focused on the technology as well as on social level interactions. Feedback from over a hundred early adopters in the entertainment industry as well as individual private collectors will also be incorporated into the new design.  
Innovation 